Hi everyone and welcome to a new pod. In
this pod we have CLA. Claire recently
made a project called eBPF linker that
became very viral on Twitter. If you
want to know more about how ebpf works
compiler engineering um if you want to
understand slightly more low-level stuff
specific to Solana in this case but
generally I think this is more Linux
stuff than Solana stuff then this mod is
for you. With that let's get into it.
When I started uh studying CS when I was
in the CS program, compilers give me a
shortcut to learn things. When you work
with compilers, you need to get involved
with two things at different side of
spectrum.
>> Anyone wants to get involved in the
contribute to SPF flinker project or you
know uh even work bring some of their
compiler skills to Salano. What what are
some places that they can contribute to?
So that's also another reason why I
enjoy working on compilers. I kind of
use this as a core skill to to explore
many different technology. My first
compiler gig was at uh a quantum
computing lab working on a compiler for
a quantum computing language to compile
it to CASM quantum assembly.
>> Our program can programmers like create
sana programs using any language. Now
hello everyone welcome to another
episode of the one day devs podcast.
Today we have with us Claire from Blue
Shift. Claire is also the creator of SBP
of Flinker Project which went extremely
vital on Twitter and also on GitHub a
couple of weeks ago and we are very very
excited to have you on the show today
CLA. Welcome to the show.
>> Yeah, thanks for having me. I'm happy to
be here. This is my first ever podcast.
>> So this is kind of our podcast edition.
And we ask this question to every guest
who comes on the show. So what what's
your what what's your background like?
What pulled you into crypto?
>> Right. Yeah. So uh I've worked on
compilers for a couple of years and
around like last year I got interesting
in crypto in or in blockchain. Um I
realized you can you know run things on
blockchain as if you run things on a
computer and that idea of decentralized
digital system um really attracted me. I
just curious about how things work and
so I started looking into uh you know
fun things to do in crypto. I had a
full-time job at the time so I just um
looking for like a side gig and then
since I work on compilers I really want
like continue the path. So I was like
specifically looking for um like a
compiler work um in crypto and I guess
for some weird magical reason I met
Dean. Dean is like one of the first
people I met in the space. Um, and so
how we met was was kind of interesting
cuz I'm originally from Taiwan and then
he moved to Taiwan like two three years
ago. And so I uh I moved to two years
like a couple of years ago but I still
go back every year to you know spend
time with family. And so while I was in
Taiwan like uh last December visiting my
family, I was just asking around friends
um who I know who have been crypto or
like still in crypto know any startup or
like team has might have a project for
me to do. And so I actually first met um
uh the CTO of Zeus uh another company
that Dean co-ounded. So I talked to
their CTO Jim first. I was like, "Hey,
I've got a compiler background and I'm
looking for, you know, something
interesting to do." And he was like,
"Yeah, I might know a guy for you." And
then so a week or two later, I I met
Dean at um Zeus office in Taipei. And
then so uh since I work on compilers, so
we like naturally started talking about
about compilers. And so he was like,
"Yeah, Sona compiler isn't very good."
And I actually didn't buy what he said
at the first place because it's like you
know I work on compilers I I know what
it's capable of but modern compilers are
like can run sophisticated analysis and
then to can do crazy things and also
like some compiler use LVMS back end
right so then it's like the most popular
compiler framework out out there so
there are many things you can leverage
so it could just be like you know you
can probably tweak it in the way you on
to do things that you wanted to do. So,
so yeah. So, I was just like, you know,
trying things out um and to like see uh
to see like, you know, just poke poke
things around and then cuz everything
was new to me like uh I didn't even know
no rust and so I was just uh following
the documentation on Salana to see like
how to how to develop a simple hello
world program. And so I just follow the
steps. Download the platform tools um
and then try to compile it. Got it
compiled. Great. Try to deploy it. Cool.
And then so everything seems working
fine. So then I just um the most like
straightforward way to see to like
evaluate the compiler is just to look at
the generated code to see you know if
there's any pattern can be improved if
there's any sketchy things. And so I um
I used another tool developed by Dean
ECBPF to disassemble the program. I was
like boom, 1700 lines of code. And I was
like what is going on? Why does like why
does a simple hello world need so many
lines of code to execute? And then he
was like yeah now you know that you know
what I mean by the compiler is bad. So
yeah things kind of like started from
there. he started sharing his um idea of
building a assembler without any
dependency on the tool chain and then I
was like hey I like this is essentially
a simpler compiler like I I know how to
make this I know how to make it happen.
So then yeah I just went on um working
on the assembler and then so yeah that
becomes my like first crypto gig.
>> Awesome. So kind of backtracking a
little bit right for a lot of our
audience are you know majorly people who
have been working at the quote unquote
application side or you know somewhat m
and some folks are on the back end. So
uh it it's very rare that most of the
audience get to hear from someone who
has a background in compilers right. So
it it would be really you know it would
be really awesome if you could talk
about you know what what does it mean to
be a compiler engineer or what were the
type of projects that you were working
on when you were working on compilers
>> right um so I actually didn't start
coding until like very late I uh until I
was 20 something I didn't major
engineering in college and so when I uh
when I started uh studying CS when I was
in the CS program. I feel like compilers
give me a shortcut to learn things
because it's like when you work on work
with compilers you need to get involved
with two things at different side of
spectrum like at one end you need to
learn uh study algorithm data structures
to learn how to design an IR
intermediate representation we use in
the compiler and then to you know uh
write analysis write optimization pass
but then the other end you need to work
with hardware it's like you you can't
avoid working with hardware when you
work on compilers so I feel like when
you have these two pillars you know
there isn't really anything you can't
self-taught and then so that's also
another reason why I work why I enjoy
working on compilers I kind of use this
as a core skill to to explore many
different technology so uh my first
compiler gig was at uh quantum computing
lab working on a compiler
uh uh for a quantum computing language
to compile it to CASM quantum assembly
and then uh I landed a job at the uh a
company called math works and so I've
been doing uh for past around like five
six years I've been doing uh FPJ
optimizations for um a compiler
targeting HDL and then now I'm now I'm
in crypto Awesome.
So comp compilers are especially useful
when you when you you know you're
targeting a very specific ISA or you
know a very specific set of uh hardware
right so now what what was it that
Solana was doing differently why why was
having SPF SPF linker such a big deal
>> right so um Salana use um BPF Um and but
then how we are using it is we created
you know forks for BPF uh for SPF and
then we also create a fork for the
compiler for the LVM and so yeah we just
like sort of create all these forks and
doing our own thing. So for for
developers they need to like download
our own platform tools and then to use a
different command to compile code and
but then and then also like there are um
like we use LVM so there are many like
LVM tools out there but then since we're
also doing our own thing so we can't
like leverage those tools for example
like the LVM object dump doesn't work on
Salana programs So it all relies on the
fork uh maintained by by our own people.
Um but then EPF also has evolved a lot.
So um but then we're also not getting
those improvements because it takes time
to like pull those changes in. Um but
then it's actually like not that hard to
work from eBPF. If you look at the Jed
code from SPF for EBPF, you would be
surprised like how simple how like yeah
how simple the EPF program is.
>> Interesting. I mean if I may interject
uh the I'm curious why why was there a
need to first fork LVM fork RC C and
also
fork RBPF and maintain it separately.
Right? So what what what were what was
happening here that you know these
things couldn't be upstream?
>> Yeah. Um that's a good question and uh
that's a a question I have as well. I
think that's just sort of a design
choice uh when they when they created
Salana.
So I don't yeah to be honest like I
don't know much like historical
background there.
>> Got it. So if I unders if I understand
correctly so you know B eBPF and SPF are
not so divergent that it doesn't
necessarily need to be separate folks
but then there's actually a path for
them to be one one streamlined thing and
that's where the linker works. it could
take the EVPF and then link it to SPF's
uh instructions and
is is that is is that right? I mean
>> um sort of but um yeah I think like one
reason is that EPF is for for kernel
work and then the kernel like verify is
very strict
>> but then SPF has like a many um is like
from the constraint side is is very uh
it's kind of different from eBPF. So for
example like um the uh you can have you
can loop too much uh in eBPF but then in
SPF is kind of like a metered by uh by
CU and also like the stack size
constraint is different. SBPF has
definitely like the largest stack size
but then uh lows are like configurable
in the compilers actually and so yeah
there are things like we know there are
few things from upstream ePF that's not
um that's not doing as good as SPF for
example um ebpf doesn't uh allow
misalignment memory and so it does
everything bite by bite and And then in
SPF that's kind of like uh modified to
allow misalignment. Um so yeah that's
but then that's one thing that we're
we're working on like we know there are
a few things that's not uh working as
good as SPF but then we know how to get
there like we know we know how to
address those issues.
>> So now now how does SPF work? So it's
like a separate so I mean when when I
install platform tools so for most
Salana developers would be familiar that
you know when they start on Salana they
install along with installing the local
test validator they also install the
platform tools which contains its own
there is a rusty fork and this is the
primary reason why you know whenever you
try to there is a new update to Russ and
then that's not been ported into the
fork and so you start encountering very
very weird errors and also at the same
time if your dependencies are not uh to
you know was compiled with the right
trust C then you again encounter
you know specific problems right that's
why and to a point where people you know
keep passing around specific you know
cargo lock files just so that the thing
works so essentially Because now that we
have this linker, all of that goes away
and you could just simply work with any
Rust installation. How does it I also
one thing that I keep hearing is that
like uh when people talk about um SP I
mean this coding without platform tools
why does it need to be no standard?
Currently, EPF is the tier two uh sorry
is a tier three EPF is a tier three
target for Rust and then that is because
um it still takes some more work to do
to support um core lip and we're kind of
working on that but then at the moment
um it has to be uh no standard because
um it there are things in core library
that um that ebpf doesn't support right
now. So for example like functions with
uh more than five arguments um it can't
like because like the the stack size or
the register is pretty constraint so you
can't like you have to put things in the
stack in order to pass the function
around. Uh that's one thing and then
and then yeah there are some other
things that I can't think of right now.
Yeah, but that's kind of the the the
status of things
>> in terms of the rusty fork. It can work
with core lib because it is the
compilation for that to you know spf
target is supported. What happens to the
the linker project from here? Now is
does it mean that now that this is
possible the
now programmers have a new way to
develop Solana smart contracts
technically any LLVM front end is now
you know can become you can create
Solana programs with any language that
has an LLVM uh back end. Yeah. Yeah. So,
so I I mean also I've been seeing
people, you know, create like very
interesting uh versions of that. There
is a zig lana and then someone created
in fact a cobalt lana. So
what what does it really mean now? Can
are are program can programmers like
create sana programs using any language
now?
>> Um right. So how SPF linker works is uh
the first step is called BPF linker
written by Alessandro and then he added
that when he added the uh BPF target to
Rust and so um so essentially uh so how
BPF linker works is it takes um bit code
LVM bit code as input and then link it
to an object file and then uh our linker
takes the object file uh and then like
sort repackage it into a bode format
that u SBM understand and um yeah since
um it takes LVM bit code as input. So
then ideally uh theoretically any
language with LVM back end or if like
any language that you can transpile with
LVM um can like be compatible can like
use this workflow to compile to object
file and then relink it to to a bode
format that SBF uh SVM understands.
>> Got this. You you mentioned BPF linker
right like so so as I understand there
are two linkers. one is a BPF linker and
the other one is the SPF linker right so
what what do these two and you know it's
like how do what does the compilation
workflow look like and how do they line
up for example let's say I take a
language like you know typescript or go
and someone creates a program in you
know wants to create a program in this
language what how is how Can a developer
like go from that to uh you know SPF
executable?
So the if you do just do a cargo uh
nightly build on the BPF target uh not
for like Salana it uh it use BPF linker
to link it to object file and so that's
like what you get and uh our SBF linker
is a wrapper around BPF linker and um a
linker I wrote or like I built on top of
um assembler I added for SPF
Um
so then like the like the first project
I mentioned um earlier um it's actually
like very similar thing the as assembler
and the linker uh the core part is an a
and abstract syntax tree of the program
and then like it knows how to like you
know resolve labels to do dynamic
relocations for sys calls that's how SVM
uh does sys calls and um so yeah it's
just that the assembler is parsing a
string file and then parse it to a st
but then the linker is uh parsing from a
object file which is a bite array but
then both like after parsing they go
through the exactly the same workflow.
Um so yeah that's basically how it does
uh the the linker takes um the object
file parse it and then repackage it into
into a salana program.
>> How how does some for example if anyone
wants to get involved in the contribute
to SPF linker project or you know uh
even work bring some of their compiler
skills to to Solano. what what are some
places that they can contribute to?
>> Yeah. So, if there's still a lot of
interesting compiler things, you know,
find me on Twitter, find Blue Shift on
Twitter. Um there there are some work to
some more work to be done. Um as I
mentioned, uh Alessandro plan to make
BPF a tier 2 target for Rust. So, when
that happens, just cargo build instead
of cargo nightly build. Uh but then,
yeah, there are some more work to to to
get it there. And so yeah, find me on
Twitter and like we'll find you stuff to
do. And um the SPF linker is open source
from day one. And so um and like
actually we've we've seen like with all
the XYZ Lana project we've seen you know
people just to try it out and um to do
crazy experiments and so yeah um look
into our GitHub and then see like if you
can you can learn anything from there or
like reach out to us and then we'll find
you stuff to do.
>> Awesome. Thank you so much for joining
us CLA. This has been fantastic and I'm
pretty sure our audience learned
something very new compared to what they
are typically used to. So, thank you so
much for joining us.
>> Okay, great. Thank you.